---
layout: post
title: Online Bootcamp
---

There are several "Code Bootcamps" that promise to teach an absolute beginner how to code, most focusing on web development.  Some specialize on front-end web development, some specialize in backend, and some teach both.  However, most bootcamps are eponymous in that they only last a short amount of time.  The idea is to learn the basics of web development as quickly as possible, so they cram as much information as they can into anywhere from a few weeks to three months.

This approach wasn't going to work for me for a variety of reasons.  First, I have a full-time job (that I like), and quitting it to pursue an uncertain future didn't seem like the best course of action.  What if I don't find development to be all that it's cracked up to be?  What if I can't find a job after I graduate?  What if I don't like the program or the curriculum?  What if I need to slow down to better absorb the material?

Ok, that narrowed down my options.  Nothing full-time.  What about traditional universities and colleges?  To me, this seems like a giant waste of time.  Is there some reason that I need to be in a classroom with other people to learn this material?  Isn't it the material that's important and not the setting?  Some people enjoy learning in that environment, and I do too.  However, having lived in the San Francisco Bay Area for the past twelve years, I do my best to limit unnecessary travel for my own sanity.  Adding a couple hours a week of commute time to an already absurd amount of time spent on my motorcycle doesn't sound appealing.  At all.

So, that limited my options even further: the program I chose had to be offered online.  But which one?  There are so many to choose from, some seeming thorough, and others covering a topic and quickly moving on.

A slow approach was the most appealing, as it would allow me to absorb a topic, or do more research on my own if necessary.  There's one piece missing from a strictly online approach that, and that's the human element.  What if I have questions that can't be answered by a simple Google search or Stack Overflow question?  What if one (or even two) explanations aren't enough?

What I needed was someone to talk to.  Someone to not just outright answer my questions, but push me in a direction of learning and understanding.  What I needed was a mentor.

I did my research, and Bloc.io seemed like the best fit for me.  
